## Project title
### Weather metrics prediction for Canada weather station

## Project description: 
The initial idea behind this project was to predict wildfire risk based on region and past seasonal weather. 
Weather data was sourced from the [Gouvernment of Canada](https://climate.weather.gc.ca/historical_data/search_historic_data_e.html)  where weather station data is accessible. The challenge is that there are many missing values, and some stations in remote areas no longer log data.

### Phase 1:
The present application predicts the minimum, maximum, and mean temperatures per day for weather stations across Canada. With the dataset generated by the application, you can replace missing data for the station you are interested in.

To make the predictions, I have trained three linear models using scikit-learn's DecisionTreeRegressor. The features include the coordinates of each station, the elevation, the date, and the season. I have also tested different linear models. Overall, the RandomForestRegressor produced the most accurate results, but it is very resource-intensive to train and deploy. For this reason, I decided to use the DecisionTreeRegressor.


### Phase 2: For the future
I would like to add a model to predict the precipitation received. The current model for precipitation in the [Wildfire_preprocess_model](_Wildfire_preprocess_model.ipynb) has an R² score of 50%. This model is included in the notebook but has not been deployed.
I also aim to improve the weather temperature prediction by adding more features. Finding historical data on atmospheric pressure, air humidity, and wind could be valuable for predicting both precipitation and temperature.

Finally, I would like to train another set of models using data from after 2020.

## Usage

Run the Streamlit [app.py](app.py) file. Then select the province, desired date range, and weather station. You can select the station on the map or in the box list. The app will produce a dataset that you can download.

## Contributing
I am open to contribution on this project. You can open a branch and ask for a code review.

## Authors and acknowledgment
Thank you to the Concordia Data Science Bootcamp teachers that have help me create this application.
In particular to [Anupriya](https://github.com/Anupriya-Sri) and [Alaa](https://github.com/alaa-mohamedahmed).


License
